---
layout: post
title: "CIlib 0.7.5 released"
description: "Release 0.7.5 of CIlib library"
category: announcements
tags: [releases]
---

The 0.7.5 release of CIlib has been staged. The release consists of many changes from
various contributors. We would like to thank everyone for the contributions to this
release. What follows are the main highlights for the 0.7.5 release.

<!-- more -->

### Change Log
Numerous changes have been included into the release, but the most notable are listed here:

* New clustering implementation (for PSOs).
* Rework of Niching (NichePSO) to be more sane.
* Removed the "games" package due to its unmaintained state. It will be
  revised in a future release.
* Removed several methods that are largely not required (in Meansurements
  and other related classes)
* FunctionMinimizationProblem and FunctionMaximizationProblem have been
  removed. Instead, use FunctionOptimizationProblem with a given
  Objective. The only valid Objectives are Minimize and Maximize, with
  Minimize being assumed to be the default, if none is specified.
* Added Lambda-Gamma neural networks
* Removed a number of interal classes in favor of those already provided
  by dependencies
* A number of crossover strategies have had fixes applied / newly added
* Cascading neural networks
* Migrated from maven to SBT as build system
* Several deprecations have been removed
* Additional benchmark functions have been included

### Issues
For bug reports or feature requests, please raise an issue
[here](http://github.com/cilib/cilib/issues).
Feel free to contact us via the
[user](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!forum/cilib-user) or
[development](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!forum/cilib-dev) mailing
lists. We are also available on the FreeNode IRC network in the channel `#cilib`.

### Distribution

In this release, we have changed the layout of the project such that there are now
two sub-projects: `library` and `simulator`. The `library` contains all the source
related to the algorithm components with the `simulator` containing the actual framework
to run the CIlib simulator application.

Additionally, the library will be available from the
[Maven central](http://search.maven.org/#artifactdetails%7Cnet.cilib%7Clibrary_2.9.2%7C0.7.5%7Cjar)
repository for direct inclusion into your projects. This should result in friendlier usage
for all build tools in the current ecosystem (Maven, Ant, Gradle, SBT, etc).
The simulator assembly, which
contains the simulator application with bundled library code and a series of
example XML files is available [here](http://cilib.net/releases/cilib-simulator-0.7.5.zip).
It is recommended that a script is setup, and placed on your `$PATH` to run the simulator.

{% gist 3122738 %}
